Add new PF migration guide. (#55)
RedHatInsights/better-platform-docs: pages/guides/frontend-migrations/pf-4-to-pf5.mdx

import { Alert } from '@patternfly/react-core'

# Patternfly @4 -> @5 migration

<Alert isInline title="This guide was tested only on a handful of UI modules.">

> If you encounter any inaccuracies, errors, or you feel like the guide is not complete, please contact the `@crc-experience-services-team` on the `#forum-consoledot-ui` channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter any inaccuracies, errors, or did not find the information you need, please contact the `@crc-experience-services-team` on the `#forum-consoledot-ui` channel.
```

> The guide was tested on both platex UIs and UIs outside of the platex team. There is more than 60 individual UI modules hosted by the Chrome UI. It is likely that edge cases were missed. Please do not hesitate to contact the team with any questions or suggestions. The guide and/or the tolling will be updated based on your feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The guide was tested on both platex UIs and UIs outside of the platex team. There are more than 60 individual UI modules hosted by the Chrome UI. It is likely that edge cases were missed. Please do not hesitate to contact the team with any questions or suggestions. The guide and/or the tolling will be updated based on your feedback.
```

> The guide was tested on both platex UIs and UIs outside of the platex team. There are more than 60 individual UI modules hosted by the Chrome UI. It is likely that edge cases were missed. Please do not hesitate to contact the team with any questions or suggestions. The guide and/or the tooling will be updated based on your feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The guide was tested on both Platform Experience's UIs and UIs outside of the Platform Experience team. There are more than 60 individual UI modules hosted by the Chrome UI. It is likely that edge cases were missed. Please do not hesitate to contact the team with any questions or suggestions. The guide and/or the tooling will be updated based on your feedback.
```

</Alert>

## Affected packages

- `@patternfly/*`
- `@redhat-cloud-services/*`
- `@data-driven-forms/pf4-component-mapper`
- `react`
- `react-dom`

## Pre-requisites

> Your application has to first upgrade `react` and `react-dom` core dependencies to `^18.2.0`. Modules are already using this version in deployment so do not expect any regressions. For runtime, this is just a formal dependency bump in your `package.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application has to first upgrade `react` and `react-dom` core dependencies to `^18.2.0`. Modules have been deployed already using this version so do not expect any regressions. For runtime, this is just a formal dependency bump in your `package.json`.
```

If there are any instances of your application, unit tests, or any tests that are not done inside the Chrome UI environment, these might be impacted.

It is very likely that some of your dependencies will require updates because they have `react` and/or `react-dom` as **peerDependencies** and might be locked to `react@17.0.0`. Examples of such packages are `react-redux`, `@testing-library/react`, `react-intl`, etc.

> Your package manager might throw a few errors while upgrading your dependencies. **These are expected**. There is no need to panic. You can return to the errors after you are done with bumping all dependency versions listed bellow. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your package manager might throw a few errors while upgrading your dependencies. **These are expected**. There is no need to panic. You can return to the errors after you are done with bumping all dependency versions listed below. 
```

> Most of the time, we are talking about formal dependency bump with no actual code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time, we are talking about a formal dependency bump with no actual code changes.
```

### Sample installation error

> Here is a sample error of `npm ci` with invalid peer dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example error of `npm ci` with invalid peer dependencies:
```

npm ERR!       @data-driven-forms/pf4-component-mapper@"^3.20.2" from the root project
npm ERR!   23 more (@data-driven-forms/pf4-component-mapper, ...)
npm ERR! 
npm ERR! Could not resolve dependency:
npm ERR! peer react@"<18.0.0" from @testing-library/react@12.1.5
npm ERR! node_modules/@testing-library/react
npm ERR!   dev @testing-library/react@"^12.1.4" from the root project
npm ERR! 
npm ERR! Conflicting peer dependency: react@17.0.2
npm ERR! node_modules/react
npm ERR!   peer react@"<18.0.0" from @testing-library/react@12.1.5
npm ERR!   node_modules/@testing-library/react
npm ERR!     dev @testing-library/react@"^12.1.4" from the root project
npm ERR! 
npm ERR! Fix the upstream dependency conflict, or retry
npm ERR! this command with --force, or --legacy-peer-deps
npm ERR! to accept an incorrect (and potentially broken) dependency resolution.
npm ERR! 
npm ERR! See /home/username/.npm/eresolve-report.txt for a full report.

npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
npm ERR!     /home/username/.npm/_logs/2023-08-24T11_51_07_436Z-debug-0.log

```

## Upgrading @patternfly/* packages and dependent packages

> A first step is to upgrade your patternfly dependencies. Make sure to look at the [release highlights](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/release-highlights/) to learn about the release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step is to upgrade your patternfly dependencies. Make sure to look at the [release highlights](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/release-highlights/) to learn about the release.
```

> The first step is to upgrade your patternfly dependencies. Make sure to look at the [release highlights](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/release-highlights/) to learn about the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to upgrade your PatternFly dependencies. Ensure that you look at the [release highlights](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/release-highlights/) to learn about the release.
```

> Go through your `package.json` and update your set of patternfly dependencies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go through your `package.json` and update your set of PatternFly dependencies. 
```

> ### List of patternfly dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### List of PatternFly dependencies
```

**Core packages**
- @patternfly/patternfly@5.0.2
- @patternfly/react-charts@7.0.0
- @patternfly/react-code-editor@5.0.0
- @patternfly/react-core@5.0.0
- @patternfly/react-icons@5.0.0
- @patternfly/react-styles@5.0.0
- @patternfly/react-table@5.0.0
- @patternfly/react-tokens@5.0.0

**PatternFly extensions**
- @patternfly/react-catalog-view-extension@5.0.0 (changelog)
- @patternfly/react-console@5.0.0 (changelog)
- @patternfly/react-log-viewer@5.0.0 (changelog)
- @patternfly/react-topology@5.0.0 (changelog)
- @patternfly/react-user-feedback@5.0.0 (changelog)
- @patternfly/react-virtualized-extension@5.0.0 (changelog)
- @patternfly/quickstarts@5.0.0 (changelog)

### List of @data-driven-forms dependencies

> The `@data-driven-forms` packages require version bump. There are no breaking changes in the DDF API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@data-driven-forms` packages require a version bump. There are no breaking changes in the DDF API. 
```

> The `@data-driven-forms` packages require version bump. There are no breaking changes in the DDF api. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `@data-driven-forms` packages require version bump. There are no breaking changes in the DDF API. 
```

- @data-driven-forms/react-form-renderer@3.21.0
- @data-driven-forms/pf4-component-mapper@3.21.0

### List of @redhat-cloud-services dependencies

> Note: there are additional steps to update your `@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config` and your project build. Detailed description is provided later in this document.

**Stable releases**

- @redhat-cloud-services/chrome@1.0.0
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components@4.0.1
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config@6.0.2
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-notifications@4.0.0
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-pdf-generator@4.0.0
- @redhat-cloud-services/types@1.0.0
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-utilities@4.0.0

**Beta releases**
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-advisor-components@2.0.0-beta.0
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-charts@4.0.0-beta.0
- @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-remediations@4.0.0-beta.0
- @redhat-cloud-services/rule-components@4.0.0-beta.0

## Installing dependencies

> In an ideal world, running `npm i` or `yarn` should install with no issues. However, due to the number of peer dependencies it is possible that your package manager will not be able to overcome its own safeguards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an ideal world, running `npm i` or `yarn` should install with no issues. However, due to the number of peer dependencies, it is possible that your package manager will not be able to overcome its own safeguards.
```

> In an ideal world, running `npm i` or `yarn` should install with no issues. However, due to the number of peer dependencies it is possible that your package manager will not be able to overcome its own safeguards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an ideal world, running `npm i` or `yarn` would install with no issues. However, due to the number of peer dependencies, it is possible that your package manager will not be able to overcome its own safeguards.
```

> If that us the case, and even after you fix all `ERESOLVE unable to resolve dependency tree` errors, you will have to remove both the `node_modules` directory and your lock file: `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If that is the case, and even after you fix all `ERESOLVE unable to resolve dependency tree` errors, you will have to remove both the `node_modules` directory and your lock file: `package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock`.
```

> If you are still getting errors about invalid peer dependencies from packages that are not listed above, please follow package documentation to a find version compatible with `react@18`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are still getting errors about invalid peer dependencies from packages that are not listed above, please follow the package documentation to a find version compatible with `react@18`.
```

> If you are still getting errors about invalid peer dependencies from packages that are not listed above, please follow package documentation to find version compatible with `react@18`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are still getting errors about invalid peer dependencies from packages that are not listed above, please follow package documentation to find a version compatible with `react@18`.
```

> After all `peerDependencies` issues are resolved your install command will pass. We also recommend running `npm ci` or its `yarn` equivalent to double check clean installation. These scripts are used during CI builds and can sometimes fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After all `peerDependencies` issues are resolved, your install command will pass. We also recommend running `npm ci` or its `yarn` equivalent to double check for a clean installation. These scripts are used during CI builds and can sometimes fail.
```

> After all `peerDependencies` issues are resolved your install command will pass. We also recommend running `npm ci` or its `yarn` equivalent to double check clean installation. These scripts are using during CI builds and can sometimes fails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After all `peerDependencies` issues are resolved your install command will pass. We also recommend running `npm ci` or its `yarn` equivalent to double check clean installation. These scripts are used during CI builds and can sometimes fail.
```

+    "@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-utilities": "^4.0.0",
     "@sentry/minimal": "6.19.7",
     "@unleash/proxy-client-react": "^3.3.0",
     "awesome-debounce-promise": "^2.1.0",
@@ -31,8 +31,8 @@
     "deep-object-diff": "^1.1.7",
     "lodash": "^4.17.21",
     "prop-types": "^15.8.1",
-    "react": "^17.0.2",
-    "react-dom": "^17.0.2",
+    "react": "^18.2.0",
+    "react-dom": "^18.2.0",
     "react-intl": "^6.0.5",
     "react-redux": "^8.0.2",
     "react-router-dom": "^6.8.0",
@@ -48,11 +48,10 @@
     "@babel/plugin-transform-runtime": "^7.18.9",
     "@babel/preset-env": "^7.18.9",
     "@babel/preset-react": "^7.18.6",
-    "@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config": "^5.1.1",
+    "@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config": "^6.0.2",
     "@testing-library/dom": "^8.16.0",
     "@testing-library/jest-dom": "^5.16.4",
-    "@testing-library/react": "^12.1.4",
-    "@testing-library/react-hooks": "^8.0.1",
+    "@testing-library/react": "^14.0.0",
     "@testing-library/user-event": "^14.3.0",
     "axios-mock-adapter": "^1.21.1",
     "eslint": "^8.20.0",

```

## @redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config updates

> The @patternfly@5 comes with updates to their build output to better support the module federation environment. There are additional steps that have to be done within the build configs to enable the optimizations. There are a few changes in the `@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config` package that enable the optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@patternfly@5` comes with updates to their build output to better support the module federation environment. There are additional steps that have to be done within the build configs to enable the optimizations. There are a few changes in the `@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config` package that enable the optimizations.
```

Is @patternfly@5 a component, update, package? It needs another word here.

### Removing babel in favor of typescript.

> **Webpack setup for typescript is able to transpile JavaScript**. The fact that we will be using typescript to transpile JS does not mean your applications will have to fully adopt typescript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Webpack setup for TypeScript is able to transpile JavaScript**. The fact that we will be using TypeScript to transpile JS does not mean your applications will have to fully adopt typescript.
```

> This change was made in order to reduce the number of webpack loaders. There were multiple loaders in previous configurations which meant that every file was parsed twice. Its nothing but waste of resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change was made in order to reduce the number of webpack loaders. There were multiple loaders in previous configurations which meant that every file was parsed twice. It's nothing but a waste of resources.
```

> This change was made in order to reduce the number of webpack loaders. There were multiple loaders in previous configurations which meant that every file was parsed twice. Its nothing but waste of resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change was made to reduce the number of webpack loaders. There were multiple loaders in previous configurations, which meant that every file was parsed twice. It did nothing but waste resources.
```

### Installing and patching typescript

The `@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config` comes with a script that will install missing dependencies or patch your `typescript` to enable TS plugins that are used to update your code to automatically adopt module federation optimizations.

Run the following script in your project root to start the patch process:

```sh
./node_modules/.bin/fec patch-ts
```

> This command will attempt to install dependencies and create new `tsconfig.json` if it does not exist and adds/updates `postinstall` script in your `package.json`. There are multiple scenarios that can happen:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will attempt to install dependencies and create a new `tsconfig.json` if it does not exist and adds/updates `postinstall` script in your `package.json`. There are multiple scenarios that can happen:
```

> This command will attempt to install dependencies and create new `tsconfig.json` if it does not exist and adds/updates `postinstall` script in your `package.json`. There are multiple scenarios that can happen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will attempt to install dependencies and create new `tsconfig.json` if it does not exist and adds/updates `postinstall` script in your `package.json`. There are multiple scenarios that can happen:
```

```

You should be able to see changes similar to this in your `package.json`:

```diff
diff --git a/package.json b/package.json
index 13de4304..dc577fc7 100644
--- a/package.json
+++ b/package.json
@@ -49,7 +49,7 @@
     "@babel/preset-env": "^7.18.9",
     "@babel/preset-react": "^7.18.6",
     "@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config": "^6.0.2",
+    "@redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports": "^1.0.1",
     "@testing-library/dom": "^8.16.0",
     "@testing-library/jest-dom": "^5.16.4",
     "@testing-library/react": "^14.0.0",
@@ -66,6 +66,8 @@
     "prettier": "^2.7.1",
     "redux-logger": "^3.0.6",
     "redux-mock-store": "^1.5.4",
+    "ts-patch": "^3.0.2",
+    "typescript": "^5.1.6",
     "webpack-bundle-analyzer": "^4.5.0",
     "whatwg-fetch": "^3.6.2"
   },
@@ -78,6 +80,7 @@
     "extract:messages": "npx @formatjs/cli extract 'src/**/*.{js,jsx}' --out-file ./translations/messages.json",
     "start": "HOT=true fec dev",
     "build": "fec build",
-    "start:federated": "fec static"
+    "start:federated": "fec static",
+    "postinstall": "ts-patch install"
   }
 }

```

#### Application has typescript@4 enabled

> **The ts-patch will fail**. The ts plugins are developed for `typescript@5`. You will see a following error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**The ts-patch will fail**. The ts plugins are developed for `typescript@5`. You will see the following error:
```

npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
npm ERR!     /home/username/.npm/_logs/2023-08-24T13_28_28_459Z-debug-0.log
node:child_process:946
    throw err;
    ^

Error: Command failed: npm i --save-dev ts-patch @redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports
    at checkExecSyncError (node:child_process:871:11)
    at execSync (node:child_process:943:15)
    at patchTs (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config/bin/fec.js:59:9)
    at run (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config/bin/fec.js:124:9)
    at Object.<anonymous> (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/@redhat-cloud-services/frontend-components-config/bin/fec.js:132:1)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1159:14)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1213:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1037:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:878:12) {
  status: 1,
  signal: null,
  output: [ null, null, null ],
  pid: 39061,
  stdout: null,
  stderr: null
}

Node.js v18.12.1

```

> If you are not using npm or force the installation of the `@redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports` and `ts-patch` you will see a slightly different error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not using npm or force the installation of the `@redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports` and `ts-patch`, you will see a slightly different error:
```

> If you are not using npm or force the installation of the `@redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports` and `ts-patch` you will se a slightly different error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are not using npm or force the installation of the `@redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports` and `ts-patch` you will see a slightly different error:
```

```sh
ts-patch install

[!] Some files can't be patched! You can run again with --verbose to get specific error detail. The following files are unable to be patched:
  - /home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/typescript/lib/tsc.js
  - /home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js

```

> If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases it is a drop in upgrade and should not cause issues in the project. There might be some possible typescript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases, it is a drop in upgrade and should not cause issues in the project. There might be some possible typescript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.
```

> If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases it is a drop in upgrade and should not cause issues in the project. There might be some possible typescript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases it is a drop-in upgrade and should not cause issues in the project. There might be some possible typescript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.
```

> If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases it is a drop in upgrade and should not cause issues in project. There might be some possible typescript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases, it is a drop in upgrade and should not cause issues in the project. There might be some possible typescript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.
```

> If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases, it is a drop in upgrade and should not cause issues in the project. There might be some possible typescript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can, please upgrade to `@typescript@5`. In most cases, it is a drop-in upgrade and should not cause issues in the project. There might be some possible TypeScript/eslint issues, but it should not require any major refactoring effort.
```

If you can't upgrade, please contact the `@crc-experience-services-team` on the `#forum-consoledot-ui` channel.

### Stricter dependency sharing

> Stricter module federation dependency sharing was enabled. If you are sharing dependencies without specified version, your build will fail. This is an error you might encounter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stricter module federation dependency sharing was enabled. If you are sharing dependencies without a specified version, your build will fail. This is an error you might encounter:
```

> Stricter module federation dependency sharing was enabled. If you are sharing dependencies without specified version, your build will fail. This is an error you might encounter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stricter module federation dependency sharing is now enabled. If you are sharing dependencies without specifying the version, your build will fail. This is an error you might encounter:
```

> Stricter module federation dependency sharing was enabled. If you are sharing dependencies without a specified version, your build will fail. This is an error you might encounter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stricter module federation dependency sharing is now enabled. If you are sharing dependencies without a specified version, your build will fail. This is an error you might encounter:
```

```

To fix that error, please add a `version` attribute to your shared dependencies. The changes can look like this:

```diff
diff --git a/fec.config.js b/fec.config.js
index 1e230c5e..87295bbb 100644
--- a/fec.config.js
+++ b/fec.config.js
@@ -13,7 +13,7 @@ module.exports = {
   plugins: [],
   moduleFederation: {
     exclude: ['react-router-dom'],
-    shared: [{ 'react-router-dom': { singleton: true } }],
+    shared: [{ 'react-router-dom': { singleton: true, version: '^6.8.0' } }],
   },
   _unstableHotReload: process.env.HOT === 'true',
 };

```

If you are using the `requiredVersion` attribute of the base module federation plugin, change the attribute name to `version`:

```diff
diff --git a/fec.config.js b/fec.config.js
index 1e230c5e..87295bbb 100644
--- a/fec.config.js
+++ b/fec.config.js
@@ -13,7 +13,7 @@ module.exports = {
   plugins: [],
   moduleFederation: {
     exclude: ['react-router-dom'],
-    shared: [{ 'react-router-dom': { singleton: true, requiredVersion: '^6.8.0' } }],
+    shared: [{ 'react-router-dom': { singleton: true, version: '^6.8.0' } }],
   },
   _unstableHotReload: process.env.HOT === 'true',
 };

```

> ## Migrating patternfly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrating PatternFly
```

> Now that dependencies are up to date and build is configured, it is time to migrate the source code. Follow the [official patternfly migration guide](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/upgrade) to migrate your patternfly modules. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that dependencies are up to date and the build is configured, it is time to migrate the source code. Follow the [official PatternFly migration guide](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/upgrade) to migrate your PatternFly modules. 
```

It is highly recommended to **run the codemods first** for both the JS and CSS. it will save you a lot of time.

## FEC Migration guide

> There are only a few breaking changes for frontend components. Majority of them enforce more strict props. Almost all components remained unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are only a few breaking changes for frontend components. The majority of them enforce more strict props. Almost all components remained unchanged.
```

> There are only a few breaking changes for frontend components. Majority of them enforce more strict props. Almost all components remained unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are only a few breaking changes for frontend components. The majority of them enforce more strict props. Almost all components remain unchanged.
```

> There are only a few breaking changes for frontend components. Majority of them enforces more strict props. Almost all components remained unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are only a few breaking changes for frontend components. Majority of them enforce more strict props. Almost all components remained unchanged.
```

Please follow [this guide](/guides/frontend-migrations/frontend-components-3-to-5) to learn about the changes.

## Verifying updates

> Now that your source files are migrated, you should be able to start the development server the same way you are used to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your source files are migrated, you should be able to start the development server in the same way you are used to.
```

If you see no build errors, you are done with the source code migration.

### The build outputs an about about missing source files!

> There is a possibility that some PF source files can't be resolved. Error can look similar to this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is a possibility that some PF source files can't be resolved. The error can look similar to this:
```

> There is a possibility that some PF source files can't be resolved. Error can look similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a possibility that some PF source files can't be resolved. An error can look similar to this:
```

    at Array.reduce (<anonymous>)
    at createDynamicReactCoreImports (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/@redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports/index.js:152:30)
    at visitor (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/@redhat-cloud-services/tsc-transform-imports/index.js:203:24)
    at visitArrayWorker (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js:86542:51)
    at visitNodes2 (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js:86513:21)
    at visitLexicalEnvironment (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js:86569:18)
    at visitEachChildOfSourceFile (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js:87758:13)
    at Object.visitEachChild (/home/username/path/to/repository/node_modules/typescript/lib/typescript.js:86730:35)
 @ ./src/components/SourceDetail/ApplicationsCard.js 20:0-50 180:71-87
 @ ./src/pages/Detail.js 6:0-75 34:36-52
 @ ./src/Routing.js 8:32-95
 @ ./src/App.js 7:0-32 33:44-51
 @ ./src/AppEntry.js 5:0-24 12:24-27
 @ container entry ./RootApp[0]

```

> The patched build is checking each patternfly modules and tries to resolve their source files. If it fails to find them, it will throw the above error. (The resolution is cached so it will not check one file more than once)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The patched build checks each patternfly module and tries to resolve their source files. If it fails to find them, it will throw the above error. (The resolution is cached so it will not check one file more than once)
```

> The patched build checks each patternfly module and tries to resolve their source files. If it fails to find them, it will throw the above error. (The resolution is cached so it will not check one file more than once)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The patched build checks each PatternFly module and tries to resolve their source files. If it fails to find them, it will throw the above error. The resolution is cached so it will not check one file more than once.
```

There are two possible reasons for this:

#### The PF migration was not done properly

> Some modules no longer exist, or were renamed or were moved to the `@patternfly/react-core/deprecated` directory. Make sure that you have properly migrated your source code and try again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some modules no longer exist, were renamed, or were moved to the `@patternfly/react-core/deprecated` directory. Make sure that you have properly migrated your source code and try again.
```

#### The PF module does not follow naming conventions

Some JS modules do not follow the naming convention so the patched build is unable to retrieve the file. There is a registry of overrides for this case. Please contact the `@crc-experience-services-team` on the `#forum-consoledot-ui` channel and the missing entry will be added.

## Fixing tests

> This is probably the longest and most annoying part of the migration. The more tests you have the longer it will most likely take.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is probably the longest and most annoying part of the migration. The more tests you have, the longer it will most likely take.
```

> We cannot really help with these but in general. Most tests that try to interact with the components will be using some combination of text or CSS selectors and almost all of these changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We cannot really help with these except in a general manner. Most tests that try to interact with the components will be using some combination of text or CSS selectors and almost all of these changed.
```

> Any snapshot tests will likely be broken as the DOM have changed for almost every component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any snapshot tests will likely be broken as the DOM has changed for almost every component.
```

> ### Babel is gone but its still handy for tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Babel is gone but it's still handy for tests
```

> Because the build now uses `ts-loader` only, the `babel` transpiler is no longer required. That said, if your application is not written fully in typescript and your testing environment is not set up for typescript, it is recommended to have a minimal babel setup for your unit tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the build now uses `ts-loader` only, the `babel` transpiler is no longer required. That said, if your application is not written fully in typescript and your testing environment is not set up for TypeScript, it is recommended to have a minimal babel setup for your unit tests.
```

It is easier and more performant to use `babel-jest` (jest default transpiler) rather than `ts-jest` for your JavaScript files.

This is an example of a minimal babel configuration to ensure your jest tests will run:

```js
// babel.config.js
// Babel config is used only for jest tests
module.exports = {
  presets: [
    '@babel/preset-env',
    '@babel/preset-react',
    '@babel/preset-typescript',
  ],
};
```

You only require these babel dependencies to ensure your test environment will successfully start up. 

- `@babel/core`
- `@babel/preset-env`
- `@babel/preset-react`
- `@babel/preset-typescript`

### Updating babel config

> 1. remove all babel related dependencies form your `package.json` and run `npm install` or `yarn`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. remove all babel related dependencies from your `package.json` and run `npm install` or `yarn`
```

> 1. remove all babel related dependencies from your `package.json` and run `npm install` or `yarn`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove all babel-related dependencies from your `package.json` and run `npm install` or `yarn`.
```

> 2. install only required babel dev dependencies with `npm i --save-dev @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react @babel/preset-typescript` or its yarn equivalent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install only the required babel dev dependencies with `npm i --save-dev @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react @babel/preset-typescript` or its yarn equivalent.
```

> 3. update your babel configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Update your babel configuration file.
```

> 4. your test command should now run properly without any compilation errors (tests will still probably fail because of the PF migration changes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. your test command should now run properly without any compilation errors .Tests might still fail because of the PF migration changes.
```

What can they do about that?

> 4. your test command should now run properly without any compilation errors (tests will still probably fail because of the PF migration changes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Your test command should now run properly without any compilation errors. (tests will still probably fail because of the PF migration changes)
```
